---
id: configuration
title: Configuration
sidebar_label: Configuration
---

> If you are using Docker container, all important configuration is set within the container.

### Laravel variables

* **APP_ENV** - this value defines environment used on the server. It can have two different values: local that prepares the application for testing on the development server, and production that will fully optimize the application for the mass usage in production.
* **APP_DEBUG** - this field determines whether debugging tools will be ON or OFF. Keep it in sync with APP_ENV, where if `APP_ENV=production` then always use `APP_DEBUG=false`, otherwise `APP_DEBUG=true`.
* **APP_KEY** - this is a random key generated using command `php artisan key:generate`. It is used in the process of generating and verifying passwords - so if you ever decide to change this value after the initial setup, it will cause all passwords generated by Laravel to be no longer valid.
* **APP_URL** -  this variable should contain your application’s address. It’s used to generate urls in application.
* **DB_…** - these six fields are used to configure a connection to your database. Most of the fields are self-explanatory. The only exception is “DB_CONNECTION”, where you should use “mysql”.
* **CACHE_DRIVER** - should have value `file`, which is standard for CMS. Cache files will be stored in “storage/framework/cache”. Don’t forget that `www-data` user needs write permissions to that directory.
* **SESSION_DRIVER** - should have value `file`, which is standard for CMS. Session files will be stored in “storage/framework/sessions”. Don’t forget that `www-data` user needs write permissions to that directory.
* **SESSION_LIFETIME** - this value decides, how long will user's session last in minutes.

### SIMPLO CMS variables

* **SENTRY_DSN** - keep default value. It helps us to track issues in system and fix them.
* **GOOGLE_CLIENT_…** - keep defaults for these two values. It is reference to our google application for connecting to google analytics on dashboard of administration.
* **TESTING_DB_DATABASE** - name of the existing database, that use used while running tests for temporary data. User defined in `DB_USERNAME` must have access to this database.
* **SIMPLE_PAGE_URL** - when set to `true`, sub-pages will have own URL address, but when is `false`, url addresses of sub-pages will be prefixed with url address of parent pages.
