---
id: resources
title: Resources
---

## Introduction

Resources are loading automatically using the module's service provider. When you create a module using `module:make` Artisan Console
command, all code for this purpose will be generated in the module's service provider.

## Configuration

The following code below is generated by default in the module's service provider:

```php
<?php

$this->publishes([
    __DIR__.'/../Config/config.php' => config_path('blog.php'),
], 'config');
$this->mergeConfigFrom(
    __DIR__.'/../Config/config.php', 'blog'
);
```

If you need to change something here for something more specific, you are free to do it. If you don't wish to publish 
module's configuration, then it's enough to remove calling `publishes` method.

## Views

The module's resources of views are loaded in the module's service provider too:

```php
<?php

$viewPath = base_path('resources/views/modules/blog');

$sourcePath = __DIR__.'/../Resources/views';

$this->publishes([
    $sourcePath => $viewPath
]);

$this->loadViewsFrom(array_merge(array_map(function ($path) {
    return $path . '/modules/blog';
}, \Config::get('view.paths')), [$sourcePath]), 'blog');
```

Everything is very similar like in Configuration section of this page. Just call methods for publish and loading of the module's
view resources and that's all. When you will have to change something because of your project, you can do it right here.
If you don't need to publish your configuration module's views, then just remove `publish` method calling.

## Language Files

```php
<?php

$langPath = base_path('resources/lang/modules/blog');

if (is_dir($langPath)) {
    $this->loadTranslationsFrom($langPath, 'blog');
} else {
    $this->loadTranslationsFrom(__DIR__ .'/../Resources/lang', 'blog');
}
```

It's code for loading the module's language files. If you need to change something, you are free to do it directly in the module's
service provider.

## Next Information

If you need to get more information about this topic, please visit [Official Package Documentation](https://nwidart.com/laravel-modules/v3/advanced-tools/module-resources)
